- make example app
    - :heavy_check_mark: connect go docker container to local volume and check you can build hello world
    - make basic goa demo app
    - change it to a club with tea and coffee
    - build it with speakeasy



write go code in goa -> goa.design makes openapi spec, goa.example makes code stubs you complete to actually make the backend do stuff -> put openapi spec in speakeasy -> generates sdks in all languages


```bash
cd ~/code/speakeasy-goa-example
mkdir app
docker run --name gobox -v ./app:/go/src/app -it golang:1.21.2 bash
```

Make your files from your local machine, not from inside the container, or you won't have permissions to edit them.

## Brief
briefly introducing it and summarizing how it differs from
- Other Go web frameworks
- Similar frameworks like Tsoa

Questions to answer
- How can you customize the OpenAPI spec generated by Goa?
- What kind of customizations lead to better SDK generations

## Niel comments

Niel on framework guides:

The workflow I've been following is to find the most popular method of extracting an OpenAPI schema from each framework, then I try to customise some elements of the schema. They specifically mentioned the following as important to customise:

    - operationId for each path.
    - Use $ref instead of inline schemas for input/output.
    - Descriptions wherever possible, to enrich generated documentation.
    - Speakeasy-specific OpenAPI extensions, for example, retries.
    - Tags to organize code in the generated SDKs.

    1. I start by defining a simple API (one or two operations and as many models) using whichever framework they requested.
    2. Then try to extract OpenAPI schema from that with as little manual work as possible (most frameworks have some kind of OpenAPI exporter or plugin).
    3. Use the extracted openapi.json or openapi.yaml with Speakeasy CLI to generate an SDK in either (their preference) TypeScript or Python.

Speakeasy provided the attached example schema as a "theme" for these guides, but we don't recreate the entire schema for each guide.
Speakeasy supports OpenAPI 2 and 3, but much prefer 3+.
https://www.speakeasyapi.dev/docs/customize-sdks/retries