article_DELETE_ME.MD, before:

## Todo
- make example app
    - DONE connect go docker container to local volume and check you can build hello world
    - make basic goa demo app
    - change it to a club with tea and coffee
    - build it with speakeasy

https://github.com/goadesign/goa/issues/3390


Gophers / Goa slack group  https://app.slack.com/client/T029RQSE6/C0FK8EV28

write go code in goa -> goa.design makes openapi spec, goa.example makes code stubs you complete to actually make the backend do stuff -> put openapi spec in speakeasy -> generates sdks in all languages

add pull request to getting started article.

## Brief
briefly introducing it and summarizing how it differs from
- Other Go web frameworks
- Similar frameworks like Tsoa

Questions to answer
- How can you customize the OpenAPI spec generated by Goa?
- What kind of customizations lead to better SDK generations

## Niel comments

Niel on framework guides:

The workflow I've been following is to find the most popular method of extracting an OpenAPI schema from each framework, then I try to customise some elements of the schema. They specifically mentioned the following as important to customise:

    - operationId for each path.
    - Use $ref instead of inline schemas for input/output.
    - Descriptions wherever possible, to enrich generated documentation.
    - Speakeasy-specific OpenAPI extensions, for example, retries.
    - Tags to organize code in the generated SDKs.

    1. I start by defining a simple API (one or two operations and as many models) using whichever framework they requested.
    2. Then try to extract OpenAPI schema from that with as little manual work as possible (most frameworks have some kind of OpenAPI exporter or plugin).
    3. Use the extracted openapi.json or openapi.yaml with Speakeasy CLI to generate an SDK in either (their preference) TypeScript or Python.

Speakeasy provided the attached example schema as a "theme" for these guides, but we don't recreate the entire schema for each guide.
Speakeasy supports OpenAPI 2 and 3, but much prefer 3+.
https://www.speakeasyapi.dev/docs/customize-sdks/retries

other golang API packages:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66171424/how-to-generate-openapi-v3-specification-from-go-source-code
- https://github.com/swaggest/rest/
- https://github.com/deepmap/oapi-codegen
- https://github.com/ogen-go/ogen
- https://github.com/swaggest/openapi-go

# The article

## Create the API specification in Goa


Now build it, using a Go container.

```bash
cd ~/code/speakeasy-goa-example;
mkdir app;
docker stop gobox; docker rm gobox;
docker run --name gobox -v ./app:/go/src/app -it golang:1.21.2 bash
cd src/app;
go mod init app;
go install goa.design/goa/v3/cmd/goa@v3;
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go@latest;
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@latest;

# download https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases/download/v24.4/protoc-24.4-linux-x86_64.zip from https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases
# unzip and paste bin/protoc exe file into ./app/lib
export PATH=$PATH:/go/src/app/lib # can't use relative path here
```

On subsequent runs, you can start the container instead of rebuilding it:

```bash
docker start gobox; docker exec -it gobox bash;
```

Write the API specification in `app/design/design.go`.

```bash
goa gen app/design
```

In your host machine terminal, not in the container terminal, give yourself permissions to edit the created files. Rerun this whenever you create a file in the container.

```bash
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 ./app;
```

Commit message:

Got example code to run and return values from API

article_DELETE_ME.MD, after:

## Todo
- make example app
    - DONE connect go docker container to local volume and check you can build hello world
    - make basic goa demo app
    - change it to a club with tea and coffee
    - build it with speakeasy

https://github.com/goadesign/goa/issues/3390


Gophers / Goa slack group  https://app.slack.com/client/T029RQSE6/C0FK8EV28

write go code in goa -> goa.design makes openapi spec, goa.example makes code stubs you complete to actually make the backend do stuff -> put openapi spec in speakeasy -> generates sdks in all languages

add pull request to getting started article.

## Brief
briefly introducing it and summarizing how it differs from
- Other Go web frameworks
- Similar frameworks like Tsoa

Questions to answer
- How can you customize the OpenAPI spec generated by Goa?
- What kind of customizations lead to better SDK generations

## Niel comments

Niel on framework guides:

The workflow I've been following is to find the most popular method of extracting an OpenAPI schema from each framework, then I try to customise some elements of the schema. They specifically mentioned the following as important to customise:

    - operationId for each path.
    - Use $ref instead of inline schemas for input/output.
    - Descriptions wherever possible, to enrich generated documentation.
    - Speakeasy-specific OpenAPI extensions, for example, retries.
    - Tags to organize code in the generated SDKs.

    1. I start by defining a simple API (one or two operations and as many models) using whichever framework they requested.
    2. Then try to extract OpenAPI schema from that with as little manual work as possible (most frameworks have some kind of OpenAPI exporter or plugin).
    3. Use the extracted openapi.json or openapi.yaml with Speakeasy CLI to generate an SDK in either (their preference) TypeScript or Python.

Speakeasy provided the attached example schema as a "theme" for these guides, but we don't recreate the entire schema for each guide.
Speakeasy supports OpenAPI 2 and 3, but much prefer 3+.
https://www.speakeasyapi.dev/docs/customize-sdks/retries

other golang API packages:
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66171424/how-to-generate-openapi-v3-specification-from-go-source-code
- https://github.com/swaggest/rest/
- https://github.com/deepmap/oapi-codegen
- https://github.com/ogen-go/ogen
- https://github.com/swaggest/openapi-go

# The article

## Create the API specification in Goa


Now build it, using a Go container.

```bash
cd ~/code/speakeasy-goa-example;
mkdir app;
docker stop gobox; docker rm gobox;
docker run --name gobox -v ./app:/go/src/app -it golang:1.21.2 bash
cd src/app;
go mod init app;
go install goa.design/goa/v3/cmd/goa@v3;
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go@latest;
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@latest;

# download https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases/download/v24.4/protoc-24.4-linux-x86_64.zip from https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases
# unzip and paste bin/protoc exe file into ./app/lib
export PATH=$PATH:/go/src/app/lib # can't use relative path here
```

On subsequent runs, you can start the container instead of rebuilding it:

```bash
docker start gobox; docker exec -it gobox bash;
```

Write the API specification in `app/design/design.go`.

```bash
goa gen app/design;
goa example app/design;
```

In your host machine terminal, not in the container terminal, give yourself permissions to edit the created files. Rerun this whenever you create a file in the container.

```bash
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 ./app;
```

In `order.go` set: `return "A nice cup of tea", nil`

Compile it in the container.
```bash
go get app/cmd/club; # download dependencies
go build ./cmd/club && go build ./cmd/club-cli;
```

Since Go compiles to executables, you can now run the Club server in your physical machine.
```bash
./club
```

In another terminal
```bash
./club-cli --help
./club-cli order tea --body '{"includeMilk": false, "isGreen": false, "numberSugars": 1 }'
# A nice cup of tea
```
